Okay, so now we know Shadow DOM and
all the stuff.
What about the style sheets?
Because I do have a CSS file for
the Menu Page, MenuPage.css.
How can we load this and
apply it to my web component?
Well, believe me that after all these
parts, everything will work magically.
So we need to load the CSS,
where community constructor,
in connected callback, how?
Using the Fetch API.
So let's say the best way to do
that is to create a function.
That we can call that load CSS.
By the way can I create the function
inside the constructor in JavaScript?
Yeah, yes, I can, no problem.
Remember functions are just different
kinds of objects in JavaScript.
So it's a variable, in fact, if you don't
like that syntax, you can use this one,
you can use const load CSS equals to,
and it's just the same, okay?
But anyway, I just wanna force your
brain in to see something different.
Why I'm creating a new function,
because I'm going to use fetch,
I'm going to use await,
so I'm going to fetch for
components/MenuPage.css, like that.
I'm going to get that set request and
because it's await I need a sync.
And I cannot convert my
constructor into async so
that's why I need Another function
that by the way, I need to call.
I can also use the little anonymous
function if you want, but anyway.
And when I have that request,
I need to get the text from it.
So I will say something like, okay,
the CSS, it's what text is returning.
That is actually also another promise.
Now I'm not reading JSON,
I'm reading text.
What I'm going to do is that I
need to create a styles object
somewhere, For example, here.
I'm going to create a styles
with create element.
Style, and I'm going to attach that style
to my shadow DOM, appendChild(styles).
But it's empty, but now we can fill
the text content of it with our CSS.
It's a little hacky.
Yes, it works.
Do we need to do this on every component?
If you want to use this technique of
loading CSS from an external file, yes.
But remember, this is OOP.
So I can create my base class that will
do this for me on every web component.
It's not really complicated.
So if this works, and
we hope that it works,
now we have within the shadow DOM and
a style declaration with the style for
that component.
And again, if you're thinking well,
but we are loading the CSS file,
far away the loading timeline.
So maybe we will have
problems like visual issues
with this you can if you want use
link rel you can use prefetch or
preload and you can pre load that file.
I'm not saying you have to do this,
but just explain that you can do that.
Components Details page CSS,
as stylesheet.
If you do that, then the browser will
start downloading that CSS as soon as
possible, even if he doesn't know
why you will need that later.
So then when the web component asked for
it it's already there.
Okay so
you can improve that performance later.
Or you can check the style directly in the
template or wherever you wanna use here.
If you can use your imagination or
at one point you say I feel that I can use
a library well if you find a library that
targets specifically that problem and
you like it and it's lightweight go ahead